[DNM] Announce 3.0 (#47)
tikv/website: content/blog/tikv-3.0ga-release-notes.md

---
title: TiKV 3.0 GA Release & Benchmarks
date: 2019-07-08
---

Today we're very proud to announce the general availability of TiKV 3.0! Before release, TiKV 3.0 underwent a rigorous testing regime, including the [official Jepsen test](https://www.pingcap.com/blog/tidb-passes-jepsen-test-for-snapshot-isolation-and-single-key-linearizability/) with TiDB.

In this version, we tackled many problems of stability at massive scales. Whether it's spanning hundreds of nodes or storing over a trillion key-value pairs, we've seen our users and contributors put TiKV to the test in serious, real world, production scenarios. With 3.0, we've taken our ideas and lessons to bring a host of features that can better support these growing demands.

## Steady at scale

In TiKV 3.0 we've improved our system by:

> * **Optimizing the Raft heartbeat mechanism.** With the Hibernate Region feature, TiKV now adjusts the heartbeat frequency according to region activity. This means you'll see less CPU time and network traffic from idle regions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Optimizing the Raft heartbeat mechanism.** With the [Hibernate Region](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/blob/master/docs/reference/configuration/raftstore-config.md#hibernate-region) feature, TiKV now adjusts the heartbeat frequency according to region activity. This means you'll see less CPU time and network traffic from idle regions.
```

Reviewer: Added the link for Hibernate Region

Author: @dcalvin That's not a stable link, let's make it https://github.com/tikv/tikv/blob/118f141f69f961e1b0110fa234ffd75c18210dc5/docs/reference/configuration/raftstore-config.md#hibernate-region

* **Distributing Garbage Collection.** The introduction of a distributed garbage collector improves performance on large scale clusters dramatically, leading to better stability through more consistent performance.

> * **Pessimistic Locking.** It's now possible to ask TiKV to treat your transactions pessimistically. This means you can take exclusive ownership over a value for a duration. As Rust developers, we really like the idea of ownership!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Pessimistic Locking.** It's now possible to ask TiKV to enforce transactions using pessimistic locking. This means you can take exclusive ownership over a value for a duration. As Rust developers, we really like the idea of ownership!
```

I would also say why you might want to take ownership of a value

Reviewer: I am a little confused about this... Maybe we can remove the sentence?

> * **Expanding our coprocessor.** With lots of new or improved functionalities such as vector operations, batch executor, RPN functions, `work-stealing` thread pool model,  our coprocessor continues to evolve, allowing for more efficient ways to work with your data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Expanding our coprocessor.** With lots of new or improved functionalities such as vector operations, batch executor, [RPN](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reverse_Polish_notation) functions, `work-stealing` thread pool model,  our coprocessor continues to evolve, allowing for more powerful and efficient ways to work with your data.
```

* **Enhancing operator friendliness.** Human or machine, we've empowered our operators to get more out of TiKV by unifying our log format, adding new features to `tikv-ctl`, adding even more in-depth metrics, and serving HTTP based metrics. This makes TiKV easier to operate, inspect, and enjoy.

* **Refining request types.** While TiKV previously supported commands like `BatchGet`, 3.0 brings a new `BatchCommands` request type. This allows TiKV to handle batches of requests of differing kinds (such as `Get` and `Put`), leading to less data on the wire and better performance. We also added support for raw reversed scanning, and `Insert` semantics on prewrite.

> * **Reducing write amplification.** Inspired by the great ideas from [WiscKey](https://www.usenix.org/system/files/conference/fast16/fast16-papers-lu.pdf), we implemented a storage engine plugin to RocksDB that we dubbed 'Titan'. It works best with larger (>1 KB) values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Reducing write amplification.** Inspired by the great ideas from [WiscKey](https://www.usenix.org/system/files/conference/fast16/fast16-papers-lu.pdf), we've enhanced RocksDB to reduce write amplification for larger (>1 KB) values.
```

Reviewer: Think we better call out Titan.

> * **Reducing write amplification.** Inspired by the great ideas from [WiscKey](https://www.usenix.org/system/files/conference/fast16/fast16-papers-lu.pdf), we implemented a storage engine plugin to RocksDB that we dubbed 'Titan'. It works best with larger (>1 KB) values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Reducing write amplification.** Inspired by the great ideas from [WiscKey](https://www.usenix.org/system/files/conference/fast16/fast16-papers-lu.pdf), we implemented Titan, a key-value plugin that improves write performance for scenarios with value sizes greater than 1KB, and relieves write amplification in certain degrees.
```

> You can see all the changes in detail [here](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/blob/release-3.0/CHANGELOG.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can see all the changes in detail in the [changelog](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/blob/release-3.0/CHANGELOG.md).
```

## Improved Performance

> Using [`go-ycsb`](https://github.com/pingcap/go-ycsb) we benchmarked TiKV 3.0.0 against TiKV 2.1.14. We benchmarked a cluster of 3 TiKV nodes, 1 PD node, and 1 node running YCSB. We used DigitalOcean `s-8vcpu-32gb` size machines, and you can reproduce the benchmark for yourself using the fully automated terraform script [here](https://github.com/Hoverbear/tikv-bench).

Reviewer 2: We should move the script to tikv org before publishing this

Author: I don't feel comfortable sanctioning it as an official benchmarking script right now. Having the repo under my name right now is a signal that it's not meant to be taken as a production script.

Author: What do you think @dcalvin ?

Author: Updated to https://github.com/tikv/terraform-tikv-bench

Reviewer: Good move.

> * 1KB Value Size

Reviewer 2: Can you explain what this list is?

* 100 Field Length
* 10 Field Count
* 3000 Thread Count (per node, so 9000 total)

According to these results below, and the real-world experience of our customers, we're proud to say that TiKV 3.0.0 is the fastest, most usable TiKV yet!

### Reading the benchmarks

Since we used 3 YCSB benchers running simultaneously, you can see the results of benchers 1 through 3 below.

> For the results, `Takes(s)`, `Count`, and `OPS` are better if they are higher. The final fields detailing `us` units, lower is better.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the results, `Takes(s)`, `Count`, and `OPS` are better if they are higher. The final fields detailing `us` (microseconds), lower is better.
```

### Load

2.1.14:

```
1 - INSERT - Takes(s): 27.6, Count: 332998, OPS: 12045.0, Avg(us): 244522, Min(us): 31613, Max(us): 1686185, 95th(us): 415000, 99th(us): 0
2 - INSERT - Takes(s): 28.0, Count: 332999, OPS: 11890.6, Avg(us): 242495, Min(us): 40928, Max(us): 2362282, 95th(us): 389000, 99th(us): 0
3 - INSERT - Takes(s): 30.2, Count: 333000, OPS: 11030.8, Avg(us): 252949, Min(us): 34649, Max(us): 3452374, 95th(us): 452000, 99th(us): 0
```

3.0.0:

```
1 - INSERT - Takes(s): 18.5, Count: 332999, OPS: 17966.8, Avg(us): 158305, Min(us): 1949, Max(us): 3812844, 95th(us): 479000, 99th(us): 1014000
2 - INSERT - Takes(s): 28.0, Count: 333000, OPS: 11885.8, Avg(us): 238947, Min(us): 16070, Max(us): 1212289, 95th(us): 559000, 99th(us): 923000
3 - INSERT - Takes(s): 20.1, Count: 333000, OPS: 16603.8, Avg(us): 180926, Min(us): 6183, Max(us): 1165298, 95th(us): 339000, 99th(us): 543000
```

$$ \frac{17966.8 + 11885.8 + 16603.8}{12045 + 1189.6 + 11030.8} = \frac{46454}{24264} = 1.9 $$

> TiKV 3.0.0 has approximately **1.9x better while under a pure blind write performance**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TiKV 3.0.0 has approximately **1.9x better performance while under a pure blind write workload**.
```

3 - UPDATE - Takes(s): 69.8, Count: 499037, OPS: 7151.3, Avg(us): 319998, Min(us): 9771, Max(us): 4611633, 95th(us): 721000, 99th(us): 0
```

3.0.0:

```
1 - READ - Takes(s): 67.2, Count: 499803, OPS: 7435.7, Avg(us): 49039, Min(us): 418, Max(us): 5944697, 95th(us): 98000, 99th(us): 407000
2 - READ - Takes(s): 60.4, Count: 499945, OPS: 8271.7, Avg(us): 36091, Min(us): 362, Max(us): 3075800, 95th(us): 98000, 99th(us): 310000
3 - READ - Takes(s): 62.1, Count: 499120, OPS: 8035.4, Avg(us): 41641, Min(us): 354, Max(us): 3054153, 95th(us): 107000, 99th(us): 327000
1 - UPDATE - Takes(s): 67.1, Count: 499197, OPS: 7434.4, Avg(us): 322869, Min(us): 2069, Max(us): 6116491, 95th(us): 896000, 99th(us): 0
2 - UPDATE - Takes(s): 60.4, Count: 499055, OPS: 8259.1, Avg(us): 300100, Min(us): 3042, Max(us): 5832169, 95th(us): 826000, 99th(us): 0
3 - UPDATE - Takes(s): 62.1, Count: 499880, OPS: 8054.1, Avg(us): 306264, Min(us): 2242, Max(us): 5717033, 95th(us): 831000, 99th(us): 0
```

$$ \frac{7435.7 + 8271.7 + 8035.4}{6860.7 + 6821.9 + 7138.6} = \frac{23742.8}{20821.2} = 1.14 $$

> TiKV 3.0.0 has approximately **1.14x better read performance while under a 50% read / 50% update workload.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TiKV 3.0.0 has approximately **1.14x better read performance while under a 50% read / 50% update workload.**
```

TiKV 3.0.0 has approximately **1.72x better update performance while under a 95% read / 5% update workload.**

### Workload C - 100% Read

2.1.14:

```
1 - READ - Takes(s): 31.3, Count: 999000, OPS: 31967.8, Avg(us): 91216, Min(us): 495, Max(us): 2107986, 95th(us): 213000, 99th(us): 438000
2 - READ - Takes(s): 30.3, Count: 999000, OPS: 32946.6, Avg(us): 81638, Min(us): 384, Max(us): 1174158, 95th(us): 188000, 99th(us): 391000
3 - READ - Takes(s): 29.8, Count: 999000, OPS: 33495.9, Avg(us): 87190, Min(us): 491, Max(us): 1715646, 95th(us): 195000, 99th(us): 384000

```

3.0.0:

```
1 - READ - Takes(s): 24.0, Count: 999000, OPS: 41599.0, Avg(us): 64914, Min(us): 587, Max(us): 7320130, 95th(us): 137000, 99th(us): 466000
2 - READ - Takes(s): 18.0, Count: 999000, OPS: 55351.7, Avg(us): 51959, Min(us): 454, Max(us): 1070117, 95th(us): 140000, 99th(us): 333000
3 - READ - Takes(s): 21.0, Count: 999000, OPS: 47659.2, Avg(us): 59935, Min(us): 440, Max(us): 1768322, 95th(us): 157000, 99th(us): 385000
```

$$ \frac{41599.0 + 55351.7 + 47659.2}{31967.8 + 32946.6 + 33495.9} = \frac{144609.9}{98410.3} = 1.47 $$

> TiKV 3.0.0 has approximately **1.47x better read performance while under a pure read workload.**

Reviewer 2: IMO, we should present all these numbers as 2sf, I don't believe we can trust YCSB to be precise to 3.

## A big thanks

> We'd especially like to thank our contributors who helped with this release. Whether you were a returning contributor or one of the many new folks we welcomed, **thank you**.

Reviewer 2: Could we link to a contributor list? Or https://github.com/tikv/tikv/graphs/contributors if we don't have anything better

Reviewer 3: +1, though personally, I prefer to write the contributors names out in the announcement. Stronger recognition without sacrificing much of anything.

---
title: TiKV 3.0 GA Release & Benchmarks
date: 2019-07-08
---

> Today we're proud to announce the general availability of TiKV 3.0! Before release, TiKV 3.0 underwent a rigorous testing regime, including the [official Jepsen test](https://www.pingcap.com/blog/tidb-passes-jepsen-test-for-snapshot-isolation-and-single-key-linearizability/) with TiDB.

Reviewer 3: Saying that "before release tikv was tested" as the very first thing I think sends a bad intuition, like "oh, they weren't testing this stuff before". Better to say more simply that we're proud that this time we've finally been honored with a set of jepsen tests and they resulted in huge improvements to the product.

Author: Altering it to say we used an *even more* rigorous testing regime to stress we were before.

> In this version, we tackled many problems of stability at massive scale. Whether spanning hundreds of nodes or storing over a trillion key-value pairs, we've seen our users put TiKV to the test in serious, real-world, production scenarios. In 3.0, we've applied the lessons learned from these deployments to bring a host of new features that can better support users' growing demands.

Reviewer 3: Instead of "problems" this could be spun more positively to say e.g. "this release is stable at greater scales than ever before". Not the precise wording, but more positive than using the word "problems".

Reviewer 3: Like previous comment, the first two paragraphs are the time to deliver the good news. It's ok to admit that previous releases had "problems", but maybe not in the lead.

Reviewer 3: And I would probably re-order these two points. I think the main message is "stable at greater scales than ever before". Part of how we achieved that is by doing rigorous jepsen test. It's probably not that we did a jepsen test that is the main message.

Author: This was similar verbatim to https://pingcap.com/blog/tidb-3.0-announcement/ but I generally agree. Let me change it.

## Steady at scale

For the 3.0 release, we've improved TiKV by:

* **Optimizing the Raft heartbeat mechanism.** With the [hibernate region](https://github.com/tikv/rfcs/blob/master/text/2019-03-04-hibernate-raft.md) feature, TiKV now adjusts the heartbeat frequency according to region activity. That means you'll see less CPU time and network traffic from idle regions.

> * **Distributing Garbage Collection.** The introduction of a distributed garbage collector improves performance on large scale clusters dramatically, leading to better stability through more consistent performance.

Reviewer 3: hyperlinking "improves performance on large scale clusters" to evidence would be A+

Author: I don't have that kind of data public at the moment. :( There are some tests in our internal logbooks by @MyonKeminta . Can we settle for A- instead? :)

Reviewer: I'd settle with A-. Hopefully around next release, we could have comprehensive and formal benchmark data before we publish a release.

* **Pessimistic Locking.** It's now possible to ask TiKV to enforce transactions using pessimistic locking. This means you can take exclusive ownership over a value for a duration, preventing other requests from modifying it.

> * **Expanding our coprocessor.** With lots of new or improved functionalities such as vector operations, batch executor, [RPN](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reverse_Polish_notation) functions, `work-stealing` thread pool model,  our coprocessor continues to evolve, allowing for more powerful and efficient ways to work with your data.

Reviewer 3: `work-stealing` shouldn't be code-fenced -> 'a work-stealing thread pool model'. Maybe linking 'work-stealing' to the work stealing paper. Maybe just saying "a more sophisticated thread pool". Not sure if our audience will care about the work-stealingness.

Reviewer 3: "allowing for more powerful and efficient ways to work with your data." Kinda weak. "allowing" is pretty passive.

Spitball suggestion: "accelerating increasingly powerful queries".

> * **Enhancing operator friendliness.** Human or machine, we've empowered our operators to get more out of TiKV by unifying our log format, adding new features to `tikv-ctl`, adding even more in-depth metrics, and serving HTTP based metrics. This makes TiKV easier to operate, inspect, and enjoy.

Reviewer 3: lol "enjoy". ok, but ... ok :)

> * **Refining request types.** While TiKV previously supported commands like `BatchGet`, 3.0 brings a new `BatchCommands` request type. This allows TiKV to handle batches of requests of differing kinds (such as `Get` and `Put`), leading to less data on the wire and better performance. We also added support for raw reversed scanning, and `Insert` semantics on prewrite.

Reviewer 3: Consider hyperlinking to docs for these commands, at least `BatchCommands`.

Author: Best option would the the rust client docs but those aren't publish since it's not released :(

> * **Reducing write amplification.** Inspired by the great ideas from [WiscKey](https://www.usenix.org/system/files/conference/fast16/fast16-papers-lu.pdf), we implemented Titan, a key-value plugin that improves write performance for scenarios with value sizes greater than 1KB, and relieves write amplification in certain degrees.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Reducing write amplification.** Inspired by [WiscKey](https://www.usenix.org/system/files/conference/fast16/fast16-papers-lu.pdf), this release includes [Titan], a key-value plugin that improves write performance for scenarios with value sizes greater than 1KB, and reduces write amplification.
```

Hyperlink Titan to a blog post.

Author: There is no titan blog post on tikv.org.

Author: I propose we port https://pingcap.com/blog/titan-storage-engine-design-and-implementation/ to tikv.org at a later date and publish it. @dcalvin and I are already working on this. We can add this hyperlink later.

You can see all the changes in detail in the [changelog](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/blob/release-3.0/CHANGELOG.md).

## Improved Performance

Using [`go-ycsb`](https://github.com/pingcap/go-ycsb) we benchmarked TiKV 3.0.0 against TiKV 2.1.14. We benchmarked a cluster of 3 TiKV nodes, 1 PD node, and 1 node running YCSB. We used DigitalOcean `s-8vcpu-32gb` size machines, and you can reproduce the benchmark for yourself using the fully automated terraform script [here](https://github.com/tikv/terraform-tikv-bench).

The settings for YCSB we used were:

* 1KB Value Size
* 100 Field Length
* 10 Field Count
* 3000 Thread Count (per node, so 9000 total)

> According to these results below, and the real-world experience of our customers, we're proud to say that TiKV 3.0.0 is the fastest, most usable TiKV yet!

Reviewer 3: This section provides no numbers, just setup. Boring. It also starts by mentioning TiKV 2, which is confusing, since this post is about TiKV 3. Better to lead by saying "this release improves performance in these ways under these conditions". Give the big headline numbers straight off the bat. Then go into details if you must, though better to just link to another blog post.

If these numbers are super important than I would also include the big numbers in the very opening of the blog post, as a "this release also improves perf under X scenarios by Y" e.g.

Author: We decided to go with a chart. :)

Since we used 3 YCSB benchers running simultaneously, you can see the results of benchers 1 through 3 below.

For the results, `Takes(s)`, `Count`, and `OPS` are better if they are higher. The final fields detailing `us` (microseconds) units, lower is better.

These benchmarks were run on a public cloud so you can replicate it yourself. The consequence of this is that public cloud machines have dramatic performance fluctuations, and transient failures. You may experience different results if you replicate it yourself, but on average, you should see relatively similar numbers as below.

### Load

2.1.14:

```
1 - INSERT - Takes(s): 27.6, Count: 332998, OPS: 12045.0, Avg(us): 244522, Min(us): 31613, Max(us): 1686185, 95th(us): 415000, 99th(us): 0
2 - INSERT - Takes(s): 28.0, Count: 332999, OPS: 11890.6, Avg(us): 242495, Min(us): 40928, Max(us): 2362282, 95th(us): 389000, 99th(us): 0
3 - INSERT - Takes(s): 30.2, Count: 333000, OPS: 11030.8, Avg(us): 252949, Min(us): 34649, Max(us): 3452374, 95th(us): 452000, 99th(us): 0
```

3.0.0:

```
1 - INSERT - Takes(s): 18.5, Count: 332999, OPS: 17966.8, Avg(us): 158305, Min(us): 1949, Max(us): 3812844, 95th(us): 479000, 99th(us): 1014000

> 2 - INSERT - Takes(s): 28.0, Count: 333000, OPS: 11885.8, Avg(us): 238947, Min(us): 16070, Max(us): 1212289, 95th(us): 559000, 99th(us): 923000

Reviewer 4: What i concern is why the OPS is much lower for group 2 that compare to group 1 and group 3.

---
title: TiKV 3.0 GA Release Notes
date: 2019-07-08
---

> Today we're very proud to announce the general availability of TiKV 3.0! Before release, TiKV 3.0 underwent a rigorous testing, including an [official Jepsen test](https://www.pingcap.com/blog/tidb-passes-jepsen-test-for-snapshot-isolation-and-single-key-linearizability/) with TiDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Today we're very proud to announce the general availability of TiKV 3.0! Before release, TiKV 3.0 underwent a rigorous testing regime, including the [official Jepsen test](https://www.pingcap.com/blog/tidb-passes-jepsen-test-for-snapshot-isolation-and-single-key-linearizability/) with TiDB.
```

> In this version, we tackled the problem of stability at massive scales. Whether it's spanning hundreds of nodes, or storing over a trillion key-value pairs, we've seen our users and contributors put TiKV to the test in serious, real world, production scenarios. With 3.0, we've taken our ideas and lessons to bring a host of features that can better support these growing demands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this version, we tackled many problems of stability at massive scales. Whether it's spanning hundreds of nodes or storing over a trillion key-value pairs, we've seen our users and contributors put TiKV to the test in serious, real world, production scenarios. With 3.0, we've taken our ideas and lessons to bring a host of features that can better support these growing demands.
```

## Steady at scale

In TiKV 3.0 we've improved our system by:

> * **Optimizing the Raft heartbeat mechanism.** TiKV now adjusts the heartbeat frequency according to region activity. This means you'll see less CPU time and network traffic from idle regions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Optimizing the Raft heartbeat mechanism.** With the Hibernate Region feature, TiKV now adjusts the heartbeat frequency according to region activity. This means you'll see less CPU time and network traffic from idle regions.
```

> * **Distributing Garbage Collection.** The introduction of a distributed garbage collector improves performance on large scale clusters dramatically, leading to better stability though more consistent performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Distributing Garbage Collection.** The introduction of a distributed garbage collector improves performance on large scale clusters dramatically, leading to better stability through more consistent performance.
```

* **Pessimistic Locking.** It's now possible to ask TiKV to treat your transactions pessimistically. This means you can take exclusive ownership over a value for a duration. As Rust developers, we really like the idea of ownership!

> * **Expanding our coprocessor.** With lots of new functionality, improved APIs, vector operations, and better ways to work with data, our coprocessor continues to evolve, allowing for better, more efficient ways to work with your data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Expanding our coprocessor.** With lots of new or improved functionalities such as vector operations, batch executor, RPN functions, `work-stealing` thread pool model,  our coprocessor continues to evolve, allowing for more efficient ways to work with your data.
```

Reviewer: Replace general statements with more specific items.

> * **Enhancing operator friendliness.** Human or machine, we've empowered our operators to get more out of TiKV by unifying our log format, adding new features to `tikv-ctl`, adding even more in depth metrics, and serving HTTP based metrics. This makes TiKV easier to operate, inspect, and enjoy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Enhancing operator friendliness.** Human or machine, we've empowered our operators to get more out of TiKV by unifying our log format, adding new features to `tikv-ctl`, adding even more in-depth metrics, and serving HTTP based metrics. This makes TiKV easier to operate, inspect, and enjoy.
```

> * **Refining request types.** While TiKV previously had commands like `BatchGet`, 3.0 brings a new `BatchCommands` request type. We've made taught TiKV how to handle batches of requests of differing kinds, leading to less data on the wire and better performance. We also added support for raw reversed scanning, and `Insert` semantics on prewrite.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Refining request types.** While TiKV previously supported commands like `BatchGet`, 3.0 brings a new `BatchCommands` request type. This allows TiKV to handle batches of requests of differing kinds, leading to less data on the wire and better performance. We also added support for raw reversed scanning, and `Insert` semantics on prewrite.
```

Reviewer: > We've made taught TiKV how to handle batches of requests of differing kinds,

This does not look clear to me.

Author: Added example

> * **Reducing write amplication.** We were inspired by the great ideas from [WiscKey](https://www.usenix.org/system/files/conference/fast16/fast16-papers-lu.pdf) and implemented a feature we dubbed 'Titan'. It works best with larger (>1 KB) values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Reducing write amplification.** Inspired by the great ideas from [WiscKey](https://www.usenix.org/system/files/conference/fast16/fast16-papers-lu.pdf), we implemented a storage engine plugin to RocksDB that we dubbed 'Titan'. It works best with larger (>1 KB) values.
```

You can see all the changes in detail [here](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/blob/release-3.0/CHANGELOG.md).

## Improved Performance

> Using [`go-ycsb`](https://github.com/pingcap/go-ycsb) we benchmarked TiKV 3.0.0-rc.2 against TiKV 2.1.12. We benchmarked a cluster of 3 TiKV nodes and 1 PD node. They were running on public cloud machines with 16 cores, 32 GB of RAM, a 400 GB NVMe SSD, and a 10Gbps network. We used the default settings of TiKV and PD for this.

Reviewer: Should users concern why we used 3.0.0-rc.2 for benchmarking in the 3.0 GA announcement?

Author: I'm not sure, what do you think @breeswish ?

Reviewer 5: please use 3.0-GA for benchmarking again.

Reviewer: > please use 3.0-GA for benchmarking again.
Please could you assign this @siddontang

Reviewer 6: +1 for we should use 3.0-GA. The benchmark result should be pretty close though.

Maybe @sticnarf can help you do this as well?

Author: I'll work on this :)

In order to achieve high concurrency and properly stress the system, we ran YCSB across three machines and set the following:

* 1KB Value Size
* 100 Field Length
* 10 Field Count
* 3000 Thread Count (for each machine, so a total of 9000)

| Workload              | operation | 2.1.12 Avg Latency | 3.0.0-rc.2 Avg Latency | 2.1.12 QPS | 3.0.0-rc.2 QPS | QPS Diff |
|-----------------------|-----------|--------------------|------------------------|------------|----------------|----------|
| A 50% read/50% update | read      | 4.908              | 1.971                  | 40645.7    | 43159.2        | +6.18%   |
|                       | update    | 206.649            | 197.140                | 40635.7    | 43186.5        | +6.28%   |
| B 95% read/5% update  | read      | 28.121             | 13.967                 | 247164.1   | 542027.0       | +119.30% |
|                       | update    | 132.953            | 43.307                 | 12988.6    | 28632.4        | +120.44% |
| C 100% read           | read      | 31.056             | 14.583                 | 282752.8   | 606659.5       | +114.55% |

> | Load (10 MB)          | insert    | 198.764            | 217.901                | 44743.5    | 40819.9        | -8.77%   |

Reviewer 6: Why is load slower 🤣

Author: It was AWS machines so might have been some jitter or noisy neighbor

Reviewer 7: Ah, it's not 10MB. It's 10,000,000 pieces of 1KB data.

Reviewer 5: please reproduce it and find the reason.

Reviewer 4: The performance for workload a is not as high as i expected in 3.0, can we re-test it?

Author: Definitely! :)

> Since TiKV usually is deployed with a stateless query layer, PingCAP has also published benchmarks showcases performance of TiKV paired with TiDB, the MySQL speaking query layer TiKV was originally created to compliment. You can find those benchmarks, and how to reproduce them, [**here**](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/tree/master/v3.0/benchmark).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the meantime, PingCAP has also published benchmarks that showcases the performance of TiKV paired with TiDB, the MySQL speaking query layer TiKV was originally created to compliment. You can find those benchmarks, and how to reproduce them, [**here**](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/tree/master/v3.0/benchmark).
```

Reviewer: Suggest removing the first sentence, which looks a bit redundant in meaning and makes sentence too long.
